Apple Inc. is an American multinational technology 
company headquartered in Cupertino, California, that 
designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, 
computer software, and online services. The company's 
hardware products include the iPhone smartphone, the 
iPad tablet computer, the Mac personal computer, the 
iPod portable media player, the Apple Watch smartwatch, 
the Apple TV digital media player, and the HomePod smart 
speaker. Apple's software includes the macOS and iOS 
operating systems, the iTunes media player, the Safari 
web browser, and the iLife and iWork creativity and 
productivity suites, as well as professional 
applications like Final Cut Pro, Logic Pro, and Xcode. 
Its online services include the iTunes Store, the iOS 
App Store and Mac App Store, Apple Music, and iCloud.

Apple is the world's largest information technology 
company by revenue and the world's second-largest mobile 
phone manufacturer after Samsung. In February 2015, 
Apple became the first U.S. company to be valued at over 
US$700 billion. The company employs 123,000 full-time 
employees as of September 2017 and maintains 499 retail 
stores in 22 countries as of December 2017. It operates 
the iTunes Store, which is the world's largest music 
retailer. As of January 2016, more than one billion 
Apple products are actively in use worldwide.

Apple's worldwide annual revenue totaled $229 billion 
for the 2017 fiscal year. The company enjoys a high 
level of brand loyalty and has been repeatedly ranked as 
the world's most valuable brand. However, it receives 
significant criticism regarding the labor practices of 
its contractors, its environmental and business 
practices, including anti-competitive behavior, as well 
as the origins of source materials.